is escalating its attacks on
Palestinians in Gaza and in so doing is
willfully breaching The Binding orders
of this
court Israel similarly breaches The
Binding resolutions of the United
Nations security Council erroneously
believing from the lack of counter
measures by the International Community
that it is exempt from having to respect
international law this institutionalized
impunity has LED Israel to engage in in
this genocide which has shocked the
conscience of
humanity South Africa is mindful that
the present genocide operates in denial
of the Palestinian people's inalienable
right to
self-determination and Collective right
to return to their homes in
Palestine this genocide takes place
within the context of the ongoing nagba
the 76th anniversary of which was
celebrated
yesterday the continued Force
displacement of the Palestinian people
the Eraser of Palestinian presence in
Palestine and replacement with Colonial
settlers a criminal process entrenched
and maintained by 76 years of apartate
and 56 years of illegal belligerent
occupation undoubtedly the ongoing sins
of Palestinians being forced to
repeatedly free for their lives is only
remiss of the naagar of
1948 it is a continuation of
it 7 months ago South Africa could not
have imagined that Gaza would now be
mostly wiped off the
map it could not foresee that every
family every neighborhood every class of
students every workplace would be pulled
apart killed maimed displaced
malnourished or
starved South Africa had hoped when we
last appeared before this court to hold
this genocidal process to preserve
Palestine and its people instead
Israel's genocide has continued a paace
and has just reached a new and horrific
stage Israel has sought to F its crimes
through the weaponization of
international humanitarian law it
pretends that the civilians it
ruthlessly kills through its 2,000 PB
bombs through its targeted air strikes
through its artificial intelligence
systems through its executions are human
Shields this whitewashing of Israel's
genocide misses the key and fundamental
element that of the massive and still
mounting evidence of Israel's genocidal
intent documented documents and videos
of Israeli parliamentarians and military
leaders calling for the destruction of
the Palestinian people in Gaza
incitement by Israeli civil society and
leading public Israeli figures all
collectively supporting the genocide and
its
continuation Israel continues to show
utter contempt for Palestinian life
operating with
impunity South Africa
has no no other option than to once
again seek protection in the halls of
justice for the fundamental rights of
the Palestinian people to their
existence although this present
application was triggered by the
unfolding horrific situation in
Rafa Israel's genocidal Onslaught across
C has intensified over the the past few
days also warranting the attention of
this
court with that Mr President I
respectably wish to request you to
invite Professor Von L to set out South
Africa substantive legal arguments I
thank
you I thank the agent of South Africa
for his statement I now invite Professor
Von L to take the
floor you have the floor sir
thank you
sir Mr President members of the Court it
is a privilege to appear before you and
an honor to have been entrusted with the
presentation of this part of South
Africa's
submissions this is not a routine case
it's not even a routine case on the use
of force or on International
humanitarian
law South Africa is here because the
Palestinian people are facing genocide
in Gaza and your previous orders have
not succeeded in protecting them against
that the Court held in January that the
Palestinians have a legal right to
protection against
genocide and that South Africa had shown
that there was a real and imminent risk
to the irreparable violation of that
right the court issued an order because
it considered it necessary to protect
the Palestinian people against
genocide and it issued a further order
in
March but whether because of a lack of
clarity as to precisely what the orders
require or because Israel chooses to
ignore them they have not been
effective the United Nations had a
framework including the security Council
and the general assembly for addressing
international disputes
but this part has not worked well in
this
case and South Africa respectfully asks
the court to reassert its
Authority and its role in this
framework South Africa has considered
the technical legal requirements for
provisional measures changing the
situation and so on and will address
them but the essential point is that the
court has has the power to
act to ensure that its previous orders
and its eventual judgment will not be
worthless and that the Palestinian
people will be
protected and that it needs to exercise
that power
now Israel's action is directed against
the Palestinian people throughout Gaza
and the West
Bank South Africa's request was
initially focused on Rafa because the
imminent Prospect of death and suffering
on a massive scale resulting from
Israel's
attack since that request was made it
has become increasingly clear that
Israel's actions in Rafa are part of the
end
game in which Gaza is utterly destroyed
as an area capable of human
habitation this is the last step in the
destruction of Gaza and its Palestinian
people it was Rafa that brought South
Africa to the
court but it is all Palestinians as a
national ethnical and racial group who
need the protection from genocide that
the court can
order we've heard expressions of outrage
that anyone could accuse Israel of
acting in this way
we've heard assurances that Israel was
doing everything in its power to avoid
civilian deaths as it exercised its
claimed right of
self-defense we've heard
boasts that Israel's Army is the most
moral Army in
history and we've heard denials that
there is famine in Gaza for
months people particularly in the west
have appeared unwilling to accept that
the accusations are true how could
people who look like us and sound like
us possibly engage in anything like
genocide but the evidence has to be
faced my colleagues will take you to
that
evidence including evidence of continued
bombings attacks on people in so-called
safe areas to which they've been
directed by
Israel attacks on Aid
convoys and of mass Graves and the
horrors of which the corpses
speak there is no credible argument that
this catastrophe is not
real the court has already found a real
and imminent risk of the violation of
the rights of the Palestinian people to
protection against
genocide the court is aware
of the statements of the United Nations
Secretary General of the president of
the United States of heads of state and
foreign ministers from around the world
and of the heads of international Aid
agencies they and the personal accounts
and the news footage that emerges from
Gaza tell a consistent story of
unimaginable
horror and it continues as we speak
most of Gaza has been
raised the survivors who are from time
to time allowed to return to their homes
are returning to
Rubble with no homes no running water or
electricity or sewage or other working
infrastructure and with the few
possessions that they've manage to carry
with them on carts or cars as they're
pushed from one so-called safe area to
the
next if the court does not act now the
possibility of rebuilding a viable
Palestinian Society in Gaza will be
destroyed at least for the lifetime of
those who survived the current horrors
of
Gaza the details are not always easy to
verify because Israel continues to Bar
independent investigators and
journalists from entering
Gaza and over 100 journalists who were
in Gaza have been killed since the
Israeli attacks
began but Israel cannot block
investigations by independent
investigators and then say that the
court cannot proceed because there is
insufficient evidence against
it the court has to deal with this case
on the basis of its appraisal of the
best evidence available to
it Israel May again invoke its claimed
right of
self-defense but it does not address
three glaringly obvious
points
first the right of self-defense does not
give a state a license to use unlimited
violence no right of
self-defense can ever extend to a right
to inflict massive indiscriminate
violence and starvation collectively on
an entire
people
second nothing not self-defense or
anything else can ever justify
genocide the prohibition on genocide is
absolute a peremptory Norm of
international
law third the Court ruled in
2004 that there is no right of
self-defense by an occupying State
against the territory that it
occupies the key point today is that
Israel's declared aim of wiping Gaza
from the map is about to be
realized further evidence of appalling
crimes and atrocities is literally being
destroyed and bulldozed in effect wiping
the Slate clean for those who've
committed these crimes and making a
mockery of
Justice the court is not
powerless and South Africa submits with
respect that it must do something to
assert not only its own
authority but the authority of
international
law South Africa submits that in order
to secure the entry and distribution of
food and humanitarian supplies and to
save lives a halt to Israeli military
operations across Gaza is
essential the overwhelming weight of
opinion among states and international
organizations is the
same a halt to military operations in
Gaza is necessary to comply with the
previous orders that the court has
already
imposed if Israel continues to deny that
its bombing and shelling and Military
incursions and blocking of roads and
entry points and its other military
operations in Gaza are preventing the
Fulfillment of the Court's orders the
court needs to spell it out explicitly
for
Israel and for the benefit of any other
states that are still providing Aid or
assistance to Israel in its campaign to
eradicate
Palestine these points will be developed
sir by South Africa's Council first John
Dugard will explain the jurisdictional
and other preconditions to the exercise
of the Court's power to order
provisional
measures and demonstrate that they are
met second Max dupi will set out the
recent events that have necess itated
South Africa's return to the court and
particularly those concerning
Rafa then ad dealer hassim will explain
the scale and imminence of the risk
facing Palestinians in Gaza and after
that tbea Kut toi will show that
Israel's actions have a pattern and an
explicit purpose that clearly indicates
that the aim is to eradicate Palestine
and finally L Nei will explain the
remedies that South Africa seeks and the
agent will return to readout South
Africa's prayer for
Relief that Mr President members of the
Court concludes my part of this
submission and I thank you for your
attention and ask that you now call on
Professor
duar I thank Professor vlo for his
statement I now give the floor
to professor John
dugar you have your Flo Sir Mr President
distinguished members of the Court it is
a privilege to before you you on behalf
of the Republic of South
Africa in my speech today I will briefly
address the subject of
jurisdiction and then examine the
circumstances that give rise to our
request for further provisional
measures in his order of 26 January of
this year the court found that the
applicant had Prim face to establish the
existence of a dispute between it and
the respondent
relating to the application of the
genocide convention and that the court
had jurisdiction in terms of article n
of the genocide
convention in this order of 28 March the
court found that there was no reason to
revisit this
decision it is submitted that this
conclusion remains valid for the present
proceedings the court also found that
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip have a
plausible right to be protected from
acts of genocide and that South Africa
had the right to seek compliance with
this
obligation again the court declared that
this finding need not be Revisited in
this decision of 28
March again it is submitted that this
conclusion remains valid the court has
found that South Africa has advanced a
plausible genocide claim
on 26th January the court found that the
situation in Gaza was one that required
urgent
attention and that there was a risk of
irreparable
prejudice this was confirmed in the
order of 28 March and it is a situation
that continues today indeed it is
further heightened
now
in the context of
Israel's brutal attacks on Rafa and
subsequent intensified bombing across
the North and middle areas of
Gaza Mr President on the basis of the
above findings the court ordered a
number of provisional measures on 26
January on 28th March the court found
that the circumstances of the situation
had changed in terms of article 76 of
the rules of Court as a result of the
risk of famine and ordered three more
provisional measures against
Israel today Mr President South Africa
approaches the court for a new
provisional measure new provisional
measures to ensure that the rights in
issue in the proceedings including the
right of Palestinians to protected be
protected from acts of genocide will be
protected the rules of Court allow the
court to order new provisional measures
when new facts are established or there
has been some change in the situation
which justifies modification of the
existing
orders it is of course impossible to
provide an absolute definition of new
facts or change in the
situation as it is necessary to have
regard to the situation in each and
every
case decisions of the Court involving
provisional measures
have dealt with a change in the
situation arising from new facts in
completely different circumstances cases
have dealt with matters of life and
death territorial change and freedom of
movement each case depends upon its own
set of facts and whether these facts
have so altered the situation that new
provisional measures are
Justified on the part of court in
issuing its March order the court
considered that developments since
January 2004
2024 which it found to be exceptionally
grave constituted a change in the
situation within the meaning of article
76 of the rules of
Court it also found that the previous
provisional measures that it had
indicated would not fully address the
consequences arising from the changes in
the
situation and
this led the court to order further
provisional
measures the changes in the situation
since March of this year are in many
ways grave as still they too justify the
indication of further provisional
measures on
26 January this year this court found
that there was a catastrophic
humanitarian situation in the Gia
strip
which uh was at serious risk of
deteriorating further before the court
renders its final judgment and this
warranted provisional
measures on 28 March the court found
that the
catastrophic living conditions of the
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip have
deteriorated further in particular in
view of the prolonged and widespread
deprivation of food and other basic
necessities Mr President members of the
Court it it is difficult to imagine that
the situation could get worse but
unfortunately it
has in the early days of the Goda War
Israel forced Palestinians to relocate
to the South to the Rafa govern it 1.5
million people were crammed into this
inhospitable area in the Rafa government
which appeared to offer safety from
Israel's bombing artillery fire
and the brutality of its forces
influenced by genocidal incitement by
its
leaders world leaders warned that an
assault on Gaza and in particular on
Rafa resulting in the forc and arbitary
evacuation of the already displaced
Palestinians to even less hospitable
parts of Gaza without adequate Food
Water Shelter and hospitals would have
disastrous consequences
the director general of the World Health
Organization declared that a military
incursion into Rafa will plunge the
crisis into unprecedented levels of
humanitarian need a ceasefire is needed
for the sake of
humanity Israel Mr President has not
heeded this warning it has not even
fulfilled its own undertaking not to
embark on an assault on go on Rafa
without a proper evacuation plan instead
it has gone ahead and embarked on an
attack on Rafa the Rafa government has
been bombed subjected to hillery Fire
and ground
incursions The raer Crossing is closed
and the Kum Shalom Crossing is mostly
disabled Mr President my colleague will
provide you with a full account of
Israel's genocidal act in the Gaza
Strip it is my task to briefly indicate
the new facts required by article
753 and the change in the situation
required by article
761 Mr President this application for
further provisional measures is prompted
by Israel's assault on Rafa
it is this assault that constitutes the
new facts the change in
circumstances Rafa is the last refuge in
Gaza for 1.5 million
Palestinians the majority of whom have
been forcibly displaced from North and
Central
Gaza Rafa is the last viable part of
Gaza for habilitation public
administration the provision of basic
services and Medical
Care Israel has now commenced its long
threatened assault on
Raa it has ordered the evacuation of
Palestinians in Rafa to the barren sand
dunes of Alma
wasi it has closed critical border
crossings to humanitarian Aid medical
supplies goods and fuel upon which the
population of Rafa depends
displacement famine and suffering are
now the lot of the Palestinian group
Israel's actions are in violation of
fundamental rules of humanitarian law
but in
addition they provide evidence of the
crime of genocide in terms of Articles 2
a b c and d of the genocide
convention Mr President members of the
Court this attack is the final blow that
is intended to destroy the Palestinian
group in
Gaza that this is the intention of the
final operation will be made clear by Mr
inqui Mr President since South Africa
fired the present application for
provisional measures Israel has
intensified its offensive in the north
and in central
Gaza in these circumstances we have
requested the court to issue a
provisional measure that orders Israel
to cease its military activities
throughout Gaza and to withdraw from the
territory such an
order alone can bring an end to Israel's
genocide in
Gaza that the court has the power to
order such a provisional measure is
clear the court has stated that in terms
of article 752 of the rules of Court it
has the power under its statute when a
request for provisional measures has
been made to indicate provisional
measures that are in whole or in part
other than those
requested Mr President members of the
Court this concludes my speech I thank
you for your
attention I thank uh professor John
Duart for his statement I now give the
floor to Professor Max dupi you have the
floor
Sir Mr President distinguished members
of the court it's a privilege to appear
before you on behalf of South
Africa my task is to address this court
on the new facts and the grave changes
in the situation in Rafa that is fast
leading to the deadliest phase in this
ongoing
genocide those are the circumstances
that compel South Africa to return to
the court to seek urgent further or
modified provisional measures against
Israel judges of this court have
recognized that the underlying reason
for the Court's January and March orders
was that the very right of existence of
the Palestinian population in Gaza is
currently at risk of irreparable
prejudice and that the only effective
way of preserving the right of existence
of the protected group is through the
function of
prevention South Africa seeks these
provisional measures before it's too
late for prevention to be possible let
alone
effective this court noted that the
situation in Rafa was already perilous
in its decision of 16 February and
instead of complying with this Court's
decisions of January February and March
Israel has defied this court by trapping
besieging and bombarding an overcrowded
raer exacerbating the security and the
safety of a million and a half highly
vulnerable
Palestinians Mr President no one in Gaza
is safe because as the United Nations
has repeatedly made clear no where in
Gaza is safe Palestinians were
instructed by Israeli evacuation orders
to move South to Rafa and seek Refuge
there from the bombardment in the north
yet for months the expanding population
scrambling for refuge in Rafa has been
explicitly told by Israel that they are
not safe and that Israel does not intend
for them to be
safe the International Community has
witnessed Israeli soldiers prepar
preparing for the crowned invasion of
Rafa forming themselves chanting tear
down
Rafa and Israel's intention is typified
by statements such as that of Israel's
Minister of Finance Mr smotr a member of
the security cabinet who has explained
and I quote there are no half measures
Rafa D alala nusirat total Annihilation
you shall blot out the remembrance of
amalec from under heaven there's no
place under Heaven close
quote Mr nukat will deal in careful
detail with the intention that he so
clearly evident in such statements and
by Israel's
conduct now Israel has resolutely
resisted all International efforts to
persuade and cool it from eventually
attacking Rafa as we contemplate the
horror of recent events and the
significance of Rafa for Israel's
ongoing assault the reminders
regrettably of sanit come into view
Rafa's prominence in the eyes of both
the Palestinians in Gaza and the
International Community lies in it being
the most visible of the safe areas in
Gaza which has received significant
attention in the international media to
paraphrase the international criminal
Tribunal for Yugoslavia in a decision
endorsed by this court Israel's
spectacular destruction of Rafa despite
the assurances of the International
Community including this court and in
the full glare of the international
media is intended by Israel to serve as
a potent example to all Palestinians of
their vulnerability and their
defenselessness in the face of Israeli
military forces and to be emblematic of
the fate of all Palestinians in Gaza to
use Mr sm's words that there is no place
under Heaven that they
sa South Africa has made clear in its
request of 10 May that not only is there
nowhere for the 1 and A2 million
displaced people and others in Rafa to
safely flee so much of Gaza having been
reduced to
Rubble but that if Rafa is similarly
destroyed there will be little left of
Gaza or Prospect for the survival of
Palestinian life in the territory Rafa
is where gaza's largest still partially
functioning hospitals are situated
attacks on Rafa hospitals akin to those
mounted by Israel against hospitals
elsewhere in the trip would therefore
deal a fatal blow to gaza's already
crippled Healthcare
System and at the same time as these
assaults Aid is being throttled that
throttling is done defiantly and
deliberately this court ordered on 28th
March that in Conformity with its
obligations under the genocide
convention and in view of the worsening
conditions of Life faced by Palestinians
in Gaza in particular the spread of
famine and
starvation that Israel was to take all
necessary and effective measures to
ensure without delay in full cooperation
with the United Nations the unhindered
provision at scale by all concerned of
urgently needed basic services and
humanitarian
assistance that included an Express
order that Israel increased the capacity
and number of land Crossing points and
maintaining them open for as long as
necessary and Israel was also ordered to
ensure with immediate effect that its
military does not prevent through any
action the delivery of urgently needed
humanitarian
assistance why was that order so
critical well because the two border
crossings in Rafa which Israel has
ceased and shut down are the main entry
points for life-saving humanitarian Aid
and other Goods entering Gaza and for
the entry and exit of people including
humanitarian workers Medics medical
evacuees and Palestinians trying to flee
the conflict Israel's seizure of those
Crossings places Israel in control of
all access to and from Gaza its current
closure of The Crossings has served to
seal Gaza hermetically from the outside
world further torpedoing the delivery of
Aid to and within Gaza and as the
primary humanitarian hub for assistance
in Gaza if Rafa Falls so too does
Gaza and deliberately hurting 1 and a
half million Palestinians in Rafa and
then carrying out a fullscale
bombardment while sealing off entry and
exit for life-saving Aid to an already
devastated
population while exposing them to famine
and human suffering leaves only one
inference regrett regrettably and that
is of genocidal
intent I turn now to consider the topic
of Rafa as a supposed place of Refuge 10
days ago Rafa was described as the last
refuge for Palestinians in Gaza it was
the only remaining area of the strip
which had not yet been substantially
destroyed by Israeli
attacks over the past 7 months hundreds
of thousands of Palestinians were
ordered by Israel to evacuate two Rafa
for their safety some forcibly being
displaced for the ninth time desperate
terrified and clinging to Life by a
thread these Palestinians have sought
shelter often in makeshift tents or
under sheets of scrap plastic in the
tiny and densely crowded city of Rafa
hoping against hope to stay alive in the
ongoing Israeli
bombardment a city of children Rafa has
become home to some 600,000 Palestinian
children and babies many of them
orphaned or disabled by Israel and
recall that they joined the Staggering
reality according to un women that among
the dead in Gaza are an estimated 6,000
mothers leaving 19,000 children
orphaned in addition to being the
population Center Rafa is the primary
humanitarian Hub of Gaza as I've said
and the only remaining area of the bed
strip with the infrastructure and the
resources to host the over 1 million
displaced Palestinians albe it in a
situation that has been described by the
UN as a pressure cooker of
Despair but Rafa your excellencies is no
refuge it's no safe place on 6 May
Israeli forces ordered around 100,000
Palestinians to to evacuate the Eastern
portion of Rafa many were simply unable
to flee children and elderly people are
so starved that they can barely walk
they cannot just relocate to another
area to so-called safe zones it's just
not possible and even for those who are
able to leave they' have nowhere left to
go yet again Israel's use of evacuation
orders and designation of humanitarian
zones are purely
performative they danger rather than
protect civilian life so-called
humanitarian zones are not safe the
zones are policed by the same Israeli
forces who have attacked Palestinians in
their homes in makeshift tents in public
markets schools and playgrounds in
agricultural green houses while waiting
for
Aid by Aid dropping from the
sky while attempting to return to their
homes
despite waving White flags and above all
else while Sheltering in and seeking
treatment from
hospitals Rafa as a place of Refuge or
safety remains a cruel Distortion for
another reason your excellencies for
months Israel threatened to invade Rafa
leading the UN Secretary General to warn
that an assault on Rafa would be a
political Calamity and a humanitarian
nightmare which was also of course
highlighted by this court in its
decision of February we are before this
court urgently because Palestinians are
now having to live out that Nightmare on
7 may just 15 hours after the evacuation
orders were issued Israel commenced a
severe and sustained military assault on
Rafa which is ongoing and it has
intensified in the intervening period
until today killing and injuring
Palestinians and destroying their
makeshift homes and the remaining
infrastructure necessary to sustain life
in Gaza including all Aid and medical
infrastructure in its
path Israel deliberately attacked the
very shelters to which it directed
Palestinians to
flee so Palestinian families in Gaza are
left to make an impossible choice either
they stay trapped and likely killed
alongside their loved ones in Rafa or
they head out into the few bits of
remaining land in Gaza now filling up
with tents and Shacks built of bits of
wood and nylon and vulnerable to tax the
overwhelming majority have no means to
flee other than on
foot there is nothing humanitarian about
these humanitarian
zones then on 11 May the Israeli
military issued a new round of
evacuation orders affecting some 34
neighborhoods in eastern Rafa and North
Gaza un agencies estimate in total that
approximately 20% of gaza's population
have been displaced yet again in the
past week alone
by 10 May an estimated 110,000 people
had fled Rafa by yesterday 15 may this
number had increased to around 600,000
according to the UN and all the while
and now by these actions Israel's
genocide of Palestinians continues
through military attacks and man-made
starvation and while mocking this
Court's provisional measures of
protecting the rights of Palestinians
under the genocide
convention a critical part your
excellencies of Israel def Israel's
Defiance of this Court's orders comes in
relation to Aid and food itself Israel
has seized control of both the Rafa and
the Kum Shalom Crossings taking total
control of all entry and exit of people
and goods into Gaza as a whole choking
off the two main arteries for getting
life-saving Aid to gaza's starving
population and in so doing it has
plunged Gaza into unprecedented levels
of humanitarian need even as compared
with the catastrophic levels of the
previous 7 months that led this court to
conclude that famine was setting in back
in
March the closure of The Crossings means
that Palestinians Starving in a
full-blown man-made famine are now
further deprived of food where Israel's
attacks have systematically decimated
food production systems throughout
Gaza it means that fuel cannot get in to
run incubators and life-saving Machinery
in hospitals water pumps and Wells it
means that people including the
chronically sick and injured cannot get
out of Gaza and vital Aid cannot get
into Gaza and this poses an
overwhelmingly grave threat not only to
the Palestinian people but also to
United Nations personnel and Aid workers
trying to bring some desperately needed
relief despite Israel's announcements
that it would open Kum Shalom on 8 May
on 10 May the UN reported that no
suppliers were passing through any
Crossings in southern Gaza
as of 15 May the rafing the Rafa
Crossing remains closed and there is a
continued lack of safe and logistically
viable access to the Kum Shalom crossing
the crisis could not be more urgent and
that is so where Israel's assaults on
Raa and the closure of these critical
Crossings are aggravating the famine
likee conditions across Gaza where over
a million people are predicted to face
catastrophe IPC Phase 5 food in security
levels through July which is just around
the corner bakeries have been forced to
shut down because they don't have fuel
ongoing attacks in Rafa have rendered
humanitarian warehouses inaccessible and
responders providing food Aid will run
out of food supplies within the coming
days in addition to killing and harming
Palestinians the Israeli assault on Raa
has deliberately inflicted on them
conditions of Life calculated to bring
about their physical and biological
destruction
this is starkly Illustrated through
Israel's destruction of Rafa
hospitals due to the ongoing hostilities
in its vicinity and the military
operation in Rafa the AL naar Hospital
the main medical facility in the entire
Rafa government and one of gaza's large
largest remaining partially functioning
hospitals is no longer functional it was
a Lifeline for 200 dialysis patients per
day whom the World Health Organization
previously warned would die if the
hospital were to shut down fears for the
AL emirati Hospital are also
particularly acute this is one of the
last partially functioning maternity
hospitals in the whole of Gaza which was
until recently handling almost half of
gaza's daily total of 180 births it has
already been forced to stop admitting
patients and Medics warn that without a
doubt every single one of the 45 babies
in the neonatal intensive care unit and
the special intensive care unit will die
if the hospital is occupied and then on
13 May medical staff at the kuti
hospital in Rafa received an evacuation
order from Israeli forces as one of the
last remaining hospitals in Rafa it had
only around 16 beds available for the
more than 1 million people Sheltering in
Rafa and its closure will mean the
complete collapse of what was the
limping Health Care system in
Raa Mr President allow me to conclude
Israel ground inion into Rafa has been
described by the United Nations as one
of the darkest Mornings in this 7mon
nightmare with Rafa's destruction
ongoing as South Africa speaks to this
court today the destruction of Gaza
itself will be complete the change in
the situation in Gaza and the new facts
in Rafa that I've described demand the
provisional measures that M NR will
speak to the necessity could not be
stalker the magnitude and the gravity of
the situ situation facing the
Palestinian people in Gaza now
exemplified in Rafa South Africa has
thus been motivated to come urgently to
this court to prevent the destruction of
the final Palestinian government of Gaza
with its homes its hospitals its schools
its libraries its businesses shelters
its mosques to which Israel has not yet
laid complete waste and South Africa has
come as quickly as possible to the court
to ensure that the exhausted Palestinian
men women and children who have sought
refuge in Rafa are protected from a
blood bath and it has sought urgent
protective relief because of the now
pressing need to ensure the survival of
the Palestinian people in Gaza as a
group and their protection from further
harm salvation disease and death by
Israel's closure of the Rafa and keram
Shalom Crossings fatally impacting the
so desperately needed delivery of
life-saving humanitarian Aid basic
services and medical assistance across
Gaza but Israel's genocidal acts in Rafa
Mr President and distinguished members
of the Court cannot be understood
without appreciating the overall
genocidal context in which Israel's Rafa
operation is embedded my colleague Dr
Asim will outline this along with the
crippling effects of Rafa Now onh hering
display across the Gaza Strip as a whole
I thank you Mr
President Professor Max for his
statement I now give Lord to miss adass
you have your floor M Mr
President members of the Court it is a
privilege to appear again before you on
behalf of South Africa
but it's also tragic that we are back
here four months after this court first
ordered provisional measures in this
case against the state of
Israel South Africa is compelled to
appear before you with this urgent
request for provisional measures in
circumstances where the alarm sounded by
the court on 28 March
2024 that quote all the IND indicators
of genocidal activities are flashing red
in
Gaza end quote and in Rafa in particular
is sounding louder than ever
before this is because Israel has defied
every single provisional measure
indicated by this court in its orders of
26 January and 28 March and in its
decision of 16 February as I stand stand
before you today Palestinians in Gaza
are not safe they are not secure they
are still being subjected to an ongoing
and intensifying genocide at the hands
of Israel their future hangs in the
balance Mr dupy explained in his address
the assault unfolding in Rafa the last
area in Gaza in which Palestinian life
can meaningfully be
sustained The Assault on Rafa which has
triggered this application is
inextricably linked to the ongoing
genocidal conduct being committed across
Gaza Mr
President I plac before the court again
a map of
Gaza I remind the court that Gaza is a
narrow strip of land of approximately
365 Square
kilomet it is just 6 km wide the length
from top to bottom is just 44
kilm which is about the distance between
this court and skipple
airport in South African terms this is
even less than the distance between
Johannesburg
and
Petoria Rafa lies in the south of Gaza
with an area of approximately 60 square
kilometers this time last year Rafa was
home to around
275,000
Palestinians as a result of Israel's
Onslaught and its evacuation orders
covering more than 34 of gaza's total
territory 1 . 2 million additional
Palestinians fled into Rafa under order
of Israel as a place of last
Refuge now Israel has issued further
evacuation orders directing Palestinians
to leave
Rafa in just the past week 600,000
Palestinians have been forced to flee
from Rafa
but with nowhere to
go there is a total collapse of
infrastructure of Sanitation of water of
food
supply in short the conditions necessary
to sustain life for the 2.3 million
Palestinians in
Gaza the picture on the screen shows
Palestinians last month starting to
return to their homes after Israel's
withdrawal of its
occupation of K
yunes as we can all see there is nothing
left Israel's most recent actions in
Rafa bring its coordinated plan aimed at
the D destruction of the essential
foundations of Palestinian life in Gaza
into horrifying Focus
we are in the final stages of that
coordinated plan where the different
actions of Israel to use Lenin's
terminology the systematic
disintegration of the political and
social institutions and the economic
existence of national groups and the
destruction of the personal security
Liberty Health dignity and and even the
lives of
Palestinians have led to the present
precipice Israel has the power over each
and every Palestinian man woman and
child in
Gaza to determine if they live or how
they
die history warns us what happens
next we cannot simply stand by where
waiting for that to happen
again it is not possible to recount
every story of every Palestinian who is
suffering at the hands of Israel's
Relentless genocidal
campaign indeed this court has held in
Bosnian
genocide
that quote it is
sufficient to examine those facts that
would illuminate the question of intent
or illustrate the claim by the applicant
of a pattern of Acts committed against
members of the group such as to lead to
an inference from such pattern of the
existence of a specific intent end
quote in these
submissions I show that Israel's
genocidal acts against Palestinians in
Rafa form part of a
continuing escalating pattern of conduct
across Gaza that provides persuasive and
consistent evidence of Israel's
genocidal
conduct in light of these new facts
South Africa seeks an order from the
court the only
order that will clearly protect what is
left of Palestinian life in Gaza it
seeks an explicit order order that
Israel cease its militaries military
activities not only in Rafa but
throughout
Gaza turning then to the genocidal
acts in my remaining time before you I
will highlight the following features of
the genocidal campaign by
Israel
first Israel has continued to kill
Palestinians in Gaza including women and
children at an alarming
rate second as a result of Israel's
Onslaught Palestinians in Gaza are
facing what the under Secretary General
of the UN has described as the worst
humanitarian crisis he has seen for more
than 50
years
third Israel's systematic targeting and
bombardment of hospitals
and medical facilities and its
throttling of humanitarian Aid has
pushed gaza's medical system to
collapse fourth Israel's direct
attack and Siege of gaza's biggest
hospitals has led to the uncovering of
mass Graves evidencing Israeli massacres
of Palestinians seeking shelter
and medical
treatment
finally most recently Israel has
intensified its attacks in the north
while pressing on with its rougher
offensive leaving displaced Palestinians
nowhere safe to
go I will take these in
turn the first feature of the genocidal
conduct k
since South Africa appeared before the
court on 11 January
2024 at least
11,500 Palestinians have been directly
killed by
Israel the majority of these casualties
are women and children in an enclave
where nearly 50% of the population are
children
this Onslaught has occurred despite the
binding orders issued by this court and
The Binding Security Council
resolution on 25 March
2024 demanding an immediate ceasefire
for the month of
Ramadan in fact as UNICEF pointed out a
double digigit number of children were
killed within hours
of that
resolution two mothers and four children
are killed every
hour unra head Philip lazarini
says there are no words left that can do
any justice to the people of
Gaza the numbers of dead and injured
defy
comprehension at least 35,000
Palestinians killed and 79,000 injured
with 10,000 more reportedly missing or
under the
rabble up to 1.7 million
displaced most multiple
times and More than 70% of all housing
stock in Gaza and more than 80% in parts
of Northern Region damaged or
destroyed the second
feature is the human itarian
catastrophe Israel's coordinated plan in
Gaza has resulted in a humanitarian
crisis the crisis that this court warned
about in January
February and in
March what Palestinians in Gaza
face has been described as quote
apocalyptic levels of pain and Injustice
given that food and other vital Aid
cannot get in and people including the
chronically sick and injured cannot get
out end
quote these
apocalyptic conditions look set to
worsen with Israel's ongoing attacks on
the North middle and South will full
with full-blown famine in the North
moving its way south and where Israel's
blockade on food Fuel and medical
supplies
continue gaza's children have suffered
particularly
severely more than
14,000 have been
killed thousands more have been injured
or lost family members
while an estimated 177,000 children are
unaccompanied or
separated nearly all of gaza's
children have been exposed to traumatic
experiences the consequences of which
will last a lifetime
make no
mistake these conditions are a direct
result of Israel's military Onslaught on
The besieged Enclave with full knowledge
of the destructive consequences of this
humanitarian
crisis in these
circumstances in these
circumstances the thating of
humanitarian Aid cannot be seen as
anything but the deliberate snuffing out
of Palestinian
lives starvation to the point of famine
obstructing Aid in the face of famine
and killing of at least 200 Aid
workers for the Court's previous orders
to be effective for the provision of
humanitarian
Aid urgently and that scale Israel has
to be ordered to stop its military
offensive the third
feature of genocidal
conduct relates to the crippling of
gaza's medical
system Israel's offensive on Rafa has
further reduced Access to Health Care in
an already decimated Health System
only two out of 36 hospitals are located
within the
so-called humanitarian area designated
by Israel in just 6 days between 6 and
12 May Medan s Frontier recorded that it
was forced to suspend its life
sustaining activities at Alaura
Clinic hand over its
activities at Al emirati Hospital
and was forced to close its activities
in Rafa Indonesian field hospital as it
could not guarantee the security and
safety of patients and staff with the
ongoing
offensive The Assault on healthc care
within Rafa is the culmination of a
pattern of attacks on Healthcare
Services in Gaza through which the main
hospitals across Gaza have completely
stopped functioning
after Israel's military assault pardon
me after Israel's um military
seized the Rafa and Kem Shalom Crossings
last week and prohibited the importation
of lifegiving fuel to hospitals on 13
May the European Gaza Hospital
completely ran out of fuel and
experienced a total
blackout with without fuel hospitals
cannot sustain incubators respirators
and life-saving
Machinery Healthcare in Gaza is crippled
by shortages of food fuel oxygen
medicines and
anesthetics the obstetric and maternity
health system in Gaza is virtually
nonexistent and every functioning
medical facility is overwhelmed with
patients
babies continue to die of malnutrition
and
starvation nor is there any
Escape medical evacuations are
impossible Israel has seized control of
all entry and exit points into and out
of Gaza trapping an already suffering
population and inflicting conditions of
Life calculated to bring about
Palestinians physical and biological
destruction in clear violation of
Article 2 C of the genocide
convention the fourth feature of
genocidal
conduct is the discovery of mass
graves in its targeted attack on
hospitals Israel has killed hundreds of
civilians
including doctors and medical staff
turning centers built for healing into
Mass Graves full of the decomposing
bodies of men women and
children on 10 April a un Inspection
Team reported that KH Unice was reduced
to rubble and dirt and
rures discovered ghastly scenes of
Unearthed Mass Graves containing the
massacred bodies of the elderly women
children and men at al- Nasa
Hospital blue scrubs reportedly still
clothed the dead bodies of medical
staff many were
decapitated
324 decomposing bodies were
discovered many stripped and handcuffed
of these only 42 were
identified another 30 bodies were
discovered in two Mass graves in alifa
hospital with only 12 bodies
identified prompting the UN Secretary
General to call for the immediate access
of independent
investigators these bodies included
women and children with many reportedly
showing signs of torture and summary
executions the recent discovery of
multiple Mass Graves Israel's ongoing
Chokehold on information coming out of
Gaza and complete refusal to allow
independent investigators
in means that we will not
know how many
Palestinians have been killed by
Israel's military campaign for some time
if at all and only if the evidence is
not
obliterated by Israel's ongoing military
operations in what commissioner vulka
Turk describes as the prevailing climate
of
impunity it is for this reason that
South Africa seeks an order
requiring Israel to facilitate the
unimpeded access into Gaza of fact-f
finding missions officials investigators
and
journalists the fifth
feature of genocidal conduct relates to
Israel's intensified attacks in the
North during the past
week while our eyes and attention were
drawn to the horrific acts unfolding in
Rafa Israeli tanks rolled again into
Northern
Gaza an area that Israel reported that
it had cleared many months ago on 11 May
Israel issued evacuation orders over 22
neighborhoods in jabalia in Northern
Gaza at least 100,000 people in the
north have been forced to flee their
devastated
homes that same day that same day of the
evacuation
orders Israel began a Relentless assault
on Northern Gaza killing Palestinian
families in their homes and children
near the Toba mosque within the jabalia
refugee
cramp journalists report that they have
no
idea about the number of people killed
in North Gaza for the past day as Medics
are unable to move due to the heavy
bombing many people are still trapped
under the rubble waiting for rescue but
no one is able to move under the reain
of
[Music]
bombs as I stand before you Mr President
it
continues on 14 and 15 may just
yesterday and the day before yesterday
yesterday the Israeli military issued
two new sets of evacuation orders for
all or part of 19 neighborhoods in
Northern
Gaza
displacing even more Palestinians in
search of
safety Mr
President these are the credible
facts Israel will no doubt once again
deny and cast aspersions on the
information presented by South Africa
and provided by the UN and other
International actors including those the
court itself has relied
on it will do so while continuing to
systematically attack all independent
sources of information about what is
taking place in Gaza and refuse
International investigators and
journalists entry into
Gaza having denied access to Gaza and
attempted to discredit all other sources
of information Israel is then free to
portray a picture of Gaza radically at
odds with all other accounts just
yesterday the prime minister's
office
proclaimed that quote the humanitarian
catastroph that has been spoken
of has not been realized nor will it end
quote a bold denial of the findings of
un experts and other independent
agencies such as the
IPC as this court pointed out the IPC is
a global Partnership of organizations
including amongst others the world food
program the food and agriculture organiz
ation of the UN and the World Health
Organization
ultimately Israel says only what suits
them only if and when it suits them
notwithstanding the facts on the ground
that have been presented here
today despite the court providing Israel
with an
opportunity to respond to South Africa's
current
request Israel has failed to submit a
resp
response in conclusion Mr
President members of the
Court the risks to the people of Gaza
are
imminent irreparable and rapidly
increasing this
risk gives rise to the necessity for the
remedy that we seek in this
application a remedy that that will end
Israel's genocidal campaign against
Palestinians in Gaza all of what I have
described must
stop Israel Must Be Stopped South Africa
is before you again
today to respectfully ask the court to
invoke its powers under article 752 of
the rules of the court to order a remedy
that will stop Israel
Mr
President that concludes my submissions
on the genocidal
conduct I thank you for your patient
attention and I ask that you call Mr
Nuka Toby to the podium to address the
court on genocidal intent thank you I
thank massim for statement I now give
the floor to Mr
tbea toi
you have the floor
Sir Mr President and members of the
Court it is a privilege to appear on
behalf of South Africa today's request
for the indication of further
provisional measures and or the
modification of the existing measures
has been triggered by the military
assault of is Israel on Rafa which began
on the 6th and 7th of May 2024 and has
intensified and escalated
since as shown by Mr dup C and miss
hassim the military attack is genocidal
in its
pattern I shall demonstrate that it is
also consistent with the explicit stated
and continuing genocidal intent of the
state of Israel
firstly to the knowledge of Israel Rafa
is the last Refuge of Gaza the only
remaining area in the Gaza Strip which
has not been substantially destroyed by
Israel the only area that can host
displaced people the only remaining
Center of humanitarian
Aid and the host to one of the few
remaining large hospitals across the
entirety of Gaza
Rafa is the last stage of the total
annihilation of Palestinian
life without Rafa the possibility to
rebuild and reconstruct Palestinian life
will be lost
forever for Palestinians to continue to
exist as a protected group under the
genocide convention they need a place
from which to
rebuild as we stand here today Rafa is
that place the The Last
Stand
secondly Israel also knows of explicit
warnings about the genocidal
consequences of an attack in
Rafa on 6 May 2024 the director general
of the World Health Organization warned
that a full military incursion into Rafa
will plunge the crisis into
unprecedented levels of humanitarian
need on a May 2024 2 days after the
military attack had begun he stressed
that one of the three hospitals in Rafa
Al naar was no longer functioning due to
the ongoing hostilities in its vicinity
and the military operation in Rafa since
the Border was closed the United Nations
was prevented from bringing fuel without
which all humanitarian operations would
stop Martin Griffith's the United
Nations relief Chief has rang alarm
Bells he has warned that the simplest
truth is that a ground operation in Rafa
will be nothing short of a tragedy
beyond words no humanitarian plan can
counter that the rest is
detail Palestinians do not need any more
diplomatic gesturing no more abstract
words no more virtuous condemnations and
den denunciations of Israel's actions
there is no more time to spare it is
simply Now or
Never Israel has knowledge of the
pronouncements I have cited above after
all each of them was made
publicly thirdly the state of Israel
knows of the decisions of this court
which bear on it as a state party to the
genocide convention directly and require
of it to respect its obligations under
the conven ition and the moral and legal
authority of this court the decision of
this court on 26th January 2024 noted
that the civilian population in the Gaza
Strip is extremely vulnerable and that
the catastrophic humanitarian situation
in the Gaza Strip is at serious risk of
deteriorating further before this court
renders its final
judgment bearing this in mind the court
recognized that the military operation
conducted by by Israel after 7 October
2023 has resulted inia in tens of
thousands of deaths and injuries and the
destruction of homes schools medical
facilities and other vital
infrastructure as well as displacement
on a massive scale in light of this
situation Israel was ordered to ensure
with immediate effect that its military
does not commit any acts that fall
within article two of the genocide
convention one of the measures indicated
expressly required of Israel to take all
measures within its power to prevent and
punish the direct and public incitement
to commit genocide in relation to
members of the Palestinian group in the
Gaza Strip in the decision of 16
February 2024 this court was compelled
to demand that Israel immediately and
effectively implements the Court's order
of 26 January 2024 this court cautioned
that the most recent developments in the
Gaza Strip and in Rafa in particular
would exponentially increased what is
already a humanitarian nightmare with
Untold Regional
consequences in the order of 28th March
20124 this court observed with regret
the existence of exceptionally grave
circumstances since its order of 26
January 2024 and its decision of 16
February 2024 that the catastrophic
living conditions of the Palestinians in
the Gaza Strip had deteriorated further
in particular in view of the prolonged
and widespread deprivation of food and
other basic necessities to which the
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip have been
subjected the court issued its orders
clearly highlighting the worsening
conditions of Life faced by Palestinians
in Gaza Israel was ordered to ensure
with immediate effect that its military
through any action does not commit acts
which violate the rights of Palestinians
under the genocide
convention so far Mr President what I
have said is not inference not
imputation it is direct knowledge which
Bears on the state of Israel its
political leaders and the members of its
army they know about Rafa and its
centrality to the sustainance of
Palestinian life at the present moment
they know the views of the organs of the
United Nations about the consequences of
a milit military attack on Raa they know
what this court has ordered on each of
the three occasions I have
reference yet Israel's leaders have
continued to incite genocide and to
express their own genocidal intent in
doing so not only has Israel ignored its
obligations as a state party to the
genocide convention it has also treated
this court with contempt and threatened
the rule of law let me demonstrate
this members of the Israeli ministerial
committee on National Security Affairs
and the war cabinet have simply
continued with incitement to genocide
first the Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Nano who is a member of the war
cabinet and the security cabinet has
gone beyond any reference to Hamas alone
instead he has described Israel's AIMS
in the military assault as being to
ensure that Gaza will never again
constitute a threat to Israel he
describes Israel's objective as being to
achieve total victory underscoring that
no force in the world will stop us we
will stand alone emphasizing that Israel
will fight will fight with this
fingernails second the Israeli Minister
of Defense yav Galant a member of both
the war cabinet and the security cabinet
has made it clear that Israel is taking
apart neighborhood after neighborhood
and will reach every location in Gaza
third the isra Israeli minister of
finance
bezalel smotri a member of the security
cabinet has asserted in terms
there are no half measures Rafa day
albala nerat total
inhalation he goes on to
say we are negotiating with the ones
that should not have existed for a long
time for Israeli members of cabinet it
is as if there is no court order which
binds
them they are not the only ones
regrettably in an interview broadcast on
Israeli television on 3 May 2024 the
vice chair of the international arm of
the liquid party the party to who to
which the Israeli Prime Minister belongs
stated I think we needed to invade Rafa
yesterday to go in and to get them they
are no
uninvolved we need to go in and kill and
kill and kill we need to kill them
before they kill us
taking their CU from the politicians the
Israeli Army officials have followed
suit in entrenching the incitement to
genocide and showing their contempt for
this
court the Israeli Army Chief of Staff
leftenant General HEI halevi stated
following the Israeli Army Siege and
destruction of alifa Hospital in March
2024 here is the realization of an
impressive
strategy there is a very very important
message here a hospital is not a safe
place he described the operation as a
very high achievement that is
notwithstanding eyewitness reports of
hundreds of civilians having been killed
by Israeli troops in the hospital
including patients shot dead in their
hospital beds M Graves and hundreds of
Palestinian bodies were found following
the withrawal of of the Israeli Army
from alifa hospital including bodies
with canulas in their arms some with
their limbs
tied Brigadier
General David B Khalifa commander of the
36th armed division of the Israeli Army
issued a letter to Israeli soldiers
about to deploy in Gaza exalting them to
continue the killing of
Palestinians what has been
will be no more we shall go out to it in
war we shall pulverize every aast plot
of land from which it came we shall
destroy it in the memory of it Brigadier
Khalifa has faced no
investigations nor has he been relieved
of his command this is despite the
explicit order of this court for
investigations into cases of incitement
to genocide briad KH was in fact
promoted to the rank of major and the
head of the Israeli Army personnal
division similarly when 130 senior
officers in is in the Israeli Army
penned a letter calling on Israel's war
cabinet to not allow humanitarian
suppliers supplies and the operation of
hospitals in Gaza they were not charged
with incitement or
prosecuted one of the officers would
later be named as involved in the
killing of world Central kitchen
workers genocidal rhetoric is not
punished but rewarded by the Israeli
government on 6th March 2024 reservist
first sergeant Yashin a veteran from the
April
1948 de Yasin Massacre of at least 250
Palestinians was rewarded with a
certificate of thanks and commemoration
by the Israeli president for his
motivational speeches he gave to Israeli
soldiers as they prepared for the ground
invasion of Gaza in October
2023 in at least one of those Spees he
had said he raised the memory of them he
raised them their families mothers and
children these animals can no longer
live in his speech at the award ceremony
Israeli president hok told the I
reservists including Ezra yakin that you
have been a tremendous personal example
for generations of Israel citizens and
the whole world and I want to on behalf
of all the Israeli people to say to you
thank you in their destruction of Rafa
Israeli soldiers deployed to Gaza
continue to invoke the prime minister's
speeches which are themselves
genocidal in case what I've said is not
clear enough let us hear them in their
own words
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Applause]
the destruction of Gaza and Palestinian
life is understood by commanders and
soldiers as the video
shows an Israeli soldier from the
92 three Battalion commented as follows
on photographs and footage he posted
online of Palestinian homes and
neighborhoods in can Unis completely
destroyed by the Israeli Army this year
we were honored to fulfill the command
of the annihilation of amalec and may we
finish the
job such language continues to be
widespread alongside calls by Israeli
soldiers on the ground to conquer Gaza
to flatten Gaza to erase Gaza to destroy
Gaza and after that ramala
also Israeli soldiers serving in Gaza
continue to openly call for the deaths
to
Arabs declaring may you burn
alive that Gaza is
burning that we will burn your
mother and that all of saaya will burn
in flames
the aims of Israel is to do no
less than what its own Minister of
Finance has stated that is to ensure the
total annihilation of Palestinians that
will erase the memory of
amalik he has also called for Rafer to
be completely conquered and the sooner
the
better Israel's genocidal intent
continues to receive support and
endorsement at the nesset
as t clib a member of the nesset and the
prime minister's party has stated to
attack Rafa as we attacked in the
northern strip unlike the responder
intentionally not specifically
addressing but rather the entire Rafa
system to attack mercilessly from the
air instead of turning an eye to the hag
Court turn an eye to the people of
Israel
public statements such as this show that
even members of the Israeli parliament
are fully aware of the orders of this
court but have continued to openly
incite genocide without
censure such sentiments are also widely
expressed across Israeli
Society many Israelis including Israelis
living in illegal settlements in the
West Bank have actioned statements by
government officials calling for the
denial of Aid to Gaza by destroying food
Aid on its way including setting trucks
on fire putting sugar in tanks and
destroying the food
itself Israeli public officials
including singers inciting to genocide
in Gaza have had their incitement
rewarded one singer who popularized and
adapted to Israel's current military
operations in Gaza the racist Israel
football Trant may your village B
changed it to May Gaza be erased and
singing it to Israeli soldiers in life
performances was presented with a
certificate of appreciation for his work
for the IDF soldiers during the war by
the deputy speaker of nesset hosted by
Israel's minister of social equality and
the advancement of
women another singer referenced by South
Africa before this court in the January
2024 application for his call to erase
Gaza and not to leave a single person
there has similarly been rewarded both
were brought to the attention of Israeli
authorities in South Africa's
application and pleadings before this
court neither of them nor any of the
other Israeli officials and civilians
inciting to genocide against the
Palestinians have been prosecuted much
less
punished the genocidal acts described in
South Africa's ation were foreseen and
foreseeable from the
onset Israel's intent was always to
destroy Palestinian life and to wipe
them off the face of the Earth Rafa is
the final
stand without Rafa there is no there is
no more Palestinian life in Gaza to
speak of no more Palestinian identity
and no possibility of
reconstruction Mr President
the rule of law can only survive through
the orders of this court if the rule of
law is to have any meaning let it be
today and with this case it is no longer
enough to order unhindered access to
humanitarian Aid when it is in fact the
military operation in Gaza that is
preventing it it is no longer enough to
encourage compliance with the perimet
precepts of the genocide convention when
Israel's deliberate contempt for the
international rule of law has been so
plain and so public Mr President it is
now my honor to call upon Miss
Blen nicori to address the court on the
remedies we ask for and why the SC can
and should Grant
the I thank
Mr for his statement ja mad I would like
to Now call on M you have the
floor Mr President members of the Court
it is indeed a great honor for me to
appear again before this court on behalf
of South Africa even though I can only
regret that the surrounding
circumstances are tragic and extremely
serious today almost 5 months after your
first order for provisional
measures the Gaza Strip has been almost
completely raised to the ground day
after day surrounded from all sides its
Palestinian people men women children
entire
families subjected to the genocidal
military campaign of the state of Israel
are being massacred terrorized starved
and traumatized forever
in light of uh the dramatic developments
unfolding on the Gaza Strip South Africa
feels compelled to once again request
your invaluable intervention and beseech
you to modify or indicate new
provisional measures in particular and
explicitly an immediate secession of
Israeli military operations in Rafa and
everywhere else in the territory in
order to
protect and also to prevent the total
inhilation of what remains of the Gaza
Strip of Palestine and of its
people Mr President members of the Court
there is an urgent need for further or
modified explicit and specific
provisional measures to protect the
Palestinians in Gaza from the
irreparable Prejudice cus cused by
Israel's continuing violations of the
genocide convention and of this Court's
orders including an Express order for
the immediate cessation of Israel's
military operations in Rafa and across
the whole of the Gaza
Strip the change in circumstances and
new facts demand it the extreme risk of
irreparable prejudice require it
Israel's approach to the Court's
previous orders renders it imperatively
urgent the the court has the power to do
it and our shared Humanity compels
it turning to each of those five
propositions in turn first the change in
the situation amounting to new facts
demands the indication of further or
modified explicit and specific
provisional
measures when South Africa appeared
before you on the 11th of January
urgently requesting then an order for
the cessation of Israel's military activ
op
operations humanitarians were already
out of words to describe the situation
in
Gaza today they say there are quote no
words left that can do any justice to
the people of
Gaza tens of thousands of Palestinians
have since been killed or injured
including one child killed or wounded
every 10 minutes since Israel's military
operations began including an almost
incomprehensible number number of child
amputees since March in particular
hundreds and thousands of of
Palestinians particularly the young
elderly and vulnerable are dying or at
risk of dying of communicable diseases
and and infections that are running Rife
due to the rising temperatures in ever
more crowded living conditions amidst
mountains of waste fly and mosquito
infestations and raw sewage flowing in
the bombed out streets
since the Court's last order entire
hospitals places of learning and healing
including Al shifa Hospital older than
the state of Israel itself have been
destroyed and turned into SES of horror
and mass
death gaz's devoted and steadfast
doctors and Medics have been killed and
buried in Mass Graves alongside the
patience they risked and ultimately gave
their lives to care
for the same fate now awaits Rafa's
remaining hospitals doctors and
Medics Israel's attack on Rafa its
attempt to control all of gaza's borders
followed by attacks on the North and the
middle areas in recent days which are of
unprecedented violence even amid the
horrors horrors of the past seven months
Herald a turning point Beyond which
there is no going back which is
reflected in what H calls and I quote a
new level of desperation in
Gaza as this court has heard this is in
effect the endgame for Gaza and for its
Palestinian people unfolding under the
world's watch this may well be the last
chance for the court to act to ensure
their
survival second the extreme risks of
irreparable prejudice demand the
indication of further or modified
explicit and specific provisional
measures the situation in Gaza could not
be more urgent as reflected in the
increase in Palestinian fatalities and
injuries since the last the Court's last
order and the spreading famine and
disease acts susceptible of causing
irreparable Prejudice can plainly occur
at any moment before the court makes a
final decision on this case demanding
the indication of further or modified
explicit specific provisional measures
to protect the rights found by this
court to be
plausible in Rafa in particular in
addition to the widespread risk of
violent death and injury facing the
terrified population of displaced
Palestinians as the court has heard
dialysis patients and premature bab
babies face immediate risk of
death some 1.2 million Palestinians will
be deprived of access to health care if
its hospitals are rendered inoperable
the level of Destruction that Israel has
caused across Gaza and is now wreaking
on Rafa threatens the very survival of
future Palestinian Generations in
Gaza recent evidence from a former
Israeli reservist active in Gaza
indicates that soldiers on the ground
treat Israeli ordered evacuation areas
such as those recently ordered for
significant parts of Rafa and Northern
Gaza as extermination zones wherein
orders to shoot and kill Palestinians
are made on the basis of their of their
location
alone this in itself demonstrates the
extreme risk to the right of the
Palestinians in Gaza not to be subjected
to acts of genocide as does the decision
by Israel to deploy 2,000 pound
so-called dumb bombs in ever more
densely populated areas in the stated
quote interest of saving more expensive
armaments
the routine repeated authorization of
the killing in one strike of hundreds of
Palestinian civilians men women children
babies the elderly and infirm in order
to kill a single individual believed to
be a senior Hamas Commander is yet
further evidence of that
risk so too are the repeated and routine
authorizations for tens of Palestinians
to be killed when Israel is bombing
so-called low-level targets so
apparently low level as to be nicknamed
garbage
targets it is also now now clear that
Israel is heavily relying on artificial
intelligence in identifying which
Palestinians in Gaza are to live and to
die one such system appears to function
as a form of Target machine generating
so-called kill lists of Palestinians
selected for execution on bases as
tenuous as being in a WhatsApp group
with another another identified
Target another is the
chill
for
for for
would you say
maybe reportedly Justified its
continuing military operations on the
asserted basis that quote there is no
order forbidding us from doing something
we're doing today and the fighting will
continue as usual indeed Israel has gone
so far as to claim that the court orders
are a significant success on the grounds
that the court I quote rejected South
Africa's Central request to stop the
fighting in
Gaza the Court's reluctance to date to
order directly and explicitly that
Israel cease its military operations in
Gaza in order to give effect to the
provisional measures indicated by the
court relying instead on necessary
implication has cynically been used by
Israel as cover for its
conduct Israel continues to kill and
harm Palestinians in Gaza in violation
of the Court's orders while its soldiers
and political leaders alike continue to
publicly Express Clear genocidal intent
towards them it is self-evident that the
provisional measures indicated in the
court previous orders quote do not fully
address the consequences arising from
the changes in the situation that now
pertain the severity of the situation
involving horrific human suffering
mandates that the court make explicit
that which was implicit in its previous
orders and that it now order Israel to
cease its military operations in
unequivocal Express terms nothing else
will suffice
in its March order in light of what the
court found to be quote the worsening
conditions of Life faced by Palestinians
in Gaza the court placed a heightened
obligation on Israel not only to enable
the provision of humanitarian assistance
but to ensure it in light of Israel's
abject failure to even meet the lower
threshold of enabling Aid and the ever
worsening conditions of Life faced by
Palestinians in Gaza following Israel's
SE proced of the Rafa crossing the court
must at least modify its provisional
measures in order to leave no doubt as
to what is required of Israel and to
give full effect to its previous
provisional measures as the world food
program has made clear I quote the
United Nations and its Partners have the
means to scale up to all 2.2 million
people in Gaza but only if a
humanitarian ceasefire happens
further given Israel's manifest failure
to ensure the preservation of evidence
in Gaza the recent repeated Grim
discoveries of mass Graves and what the
United Nations has called quote the
prevailing climate of impunity in Israel
Israel must be ordered to immediately
take all effective measures to ensure
the access of persons able to
investigate ongoing
atrocities the measure is critical not
just to preserving the rights of
Palestinians in South Africa in these
proceedings or indeed to the Court's
ability to exercise its own judicial
functions appropriately rather as a
spokesperson for the United Nations
Office of the High Commissioner for
human rights recently stated these
violations should not get forgotten
about they need to be recorded they need
to be reported widely by the media they
need to result in pressure from member
states that do have leverage over the
parties to the conflict to bring such
violations to an end they need to be
recorded So that investigations can do
take place and ultimately there is
accountability and the cycle of impunity
does not continue over and over and over
again fourth the court has the power to
modifiy or make an explicit order for
Israel to cease its military operations
in Rafa and in Gaza more broadly and to
withdraw from the Gaza
Strip the court is empowered and indeed
compelled given the prevailing
catastrophic situation in Gaza to order
an Express end to Israel's military
activities that is the only measure now
capable of preventing irreparable
Prejudice to the fundamental rights in
issue and of ensuring compliance with
the Court's orders the fact that such an
order would be directed at Israel alone
is no bar to the court ordering it that
is for at least three reasons
one article 41 of the Court's statute
empowers the court to indicate any
provisional measures that quote ought to
be taken to preserve the respective
rights of either party if it considers
that the circumstances so require
article 41 does not require reciprocity
there is no need for an order to be made
against both parties two the genocide
convention itself is no bar to a
one-sided cessation order on the
contrary the absolute abute prohibition
on genocide applies in both non-
International armed
conflicts as indeed the terrible
examples Rwanda and darur make clear
just as in international armed conflict
between two states it applies where only
one belligerent is a party to the
genocide convention just as it as it
applies where all of them are it applies
regardless of any claims of self-defense
which can never constitute a
justification for genocide and indeed it
applies in peace just as much as in war
and that is because the prohibition on
genocide is focused on the absolute
inalienable rights of groups of peoples
to be protected from genocide no matter
the underlying circumstances or putative
justifications it makes no sense
whatsoever to suggest that the court
could not order a state party to the
genocide convention to suspend its
military operations against a non-state
actor in order to prevent genocide
unless the non-state actor was itself
designed
indeed it would be contrary to the very
objectives of the genocide convention
which the court described over 70 years
ago as having been adopted for a purely
humanitarian and civilizing
purpose it would similarly be
nonsensical if in a claim under the
genocide convention the court could
order one party to cease its military
operations when that party was not even
alleged to be committing genocide as in
Ukraine and Russia but could not hear
when the court has itself determined a
real and imminent risk to the right of a
national racial or ethnical group not to
be subjected to acts of
genocide the evidence before the court
indicates that the extent of the Carnage
in Gaza is of a much greater magnitude
than that that pertained in Ukraine and
Russia indeed the Carnage in Gaza is of
an order which exceeds by far the
necessities of War and the limits
imposed by the laws of War as stated by
the United Nations High Commissioner for
high Comm commer for human rights what
Israel is doing is quote Beyond
Warfare not only is the court empowered
to call for it to end it is Duty bound
to do
so third the fact that the United
Nations security Council could itself
order a cessation of hostilities in Gaza
is no bar to the Court's exercise of its
own powers in this regard notably the
distinct and vital role the court was
intended to play in preventing genocide
was pointedly foreshadowed by the United
Nations delegation to the negotiations
leading to the very creation of the
genocide
convention the United n States delegate
com commented that if cases of genocide
were brought before the security Council
the whole question of the veto would be
involved States might try to avoid
submitting their disputes to the
international court of justice where
they would be settled on Purely legal
grounds and might instead submit them to
the security Council where they would be
settled on political ground grounds in
circumstances such as this where the
veto power has been wielded to such
devastating effect against the
Palestinian people the indispensable
role of a court in ensuring the
universal application of the genocide
convention its prohibitions and its
protections to All Peoples equally
cannot be
overstated as noted by the court in
indicating provisional measures in March
the security council's then operative
ceasefire resolution quot quot demanded
an immediate ceasefire for the month of
Ramadan respected by all parties leading
to a lasting sustainable
ceasefire as underscored by the
president of the Court the March
provisional measures could I quote only
take full effect end quote if the
ceasefire was respected no such
resolution is in place the court must
itself therefore create the
circumstances necessary for its
provisional measures to take full effect
it must order Israel to cease its
military
operations Fifth and finally our shared
Humanity compels the indication of
further or modified explicit provisional
measures as recently stated by the
United Nations assistant gener Secretary
General for humanitarian Affairs quote
the war in Gaza has entered yet another
horrifying phase Gaza is now a health
escape from Millions trapped under
incessant bombardment where those who
have escaped death and injury now risk
losing their lives because of a lack of
food safe water medicine and Health Care
Gaza has in her words become a moral
stain on the conscience of our
Collective
Humanity I conclude with a
slide it reports an account of a
doctor's recent experience in a hospital
in Gaza following his departure from the
script the strip he says this describing
one of the patients
there there was this the man in his
50s forgotten in a room having had both
legs
amputated he had lost his kids his
grandkids his home and he's alone in the
corner of this dark Hospital maggots
going out of his wounds and he was
screaming the worms are eating me alive
please help me that was just one out of
I don't know I just stopped counting
because those are the people I think of
because they're still there
that sums up what Gaz is today it's
people severely wounded with life
altering disabling injuries bereaved of
their entire families homeless alone
trapped without electricity or even
basic health care 7 months later after
two orders from this court they are
still there enduring this horror they
are crying out for help an order for an
immediate cessation of Israel's military
operations in Gaza is now their only
hope enough is
enough South Africa cannot but reiterate
its respectful and humble call on this
court to do what is in its power to do
what the drafters of the genocide
convention called on it to do what our
shared Humanity compels it to do to
listen to that desperate Cry for Help
from Gaza and to order Israel to
withdraw from Gaza and to cease fire
M Mr President members of the court I
wish to thank you for your kind
attention and I would like you to ask
the agent of South Africa to take the
floor to present his concluding
submissions Miss for her statement I now
give the floor back to Mr
Ambassador you have the floor
Mr
President distinguished members of the
Court it is my honor to deliver to your
excellencies the final provisional
measures that South Africa requests from
this
court the exponential gravity of the
situation in Gaza has already demanded
that South Africa return to this court
on four consecutive occasions calling
for provisional measures to stop the
destruction of Gaza on a scale not
Witness since World War
II and epitomized by the most unbearable
human
suffering willfully ignoring the
previous provisional measures Israel is
acting with complete impunity in Gaza
escalating hostilities in a final wave
of a
politic
disruption from which there is no
return there is a danger which stems
from a form of Amnesia and denial by
former Colonial powers in relation to
the crimes associated with Colonial
violence perpetrated against indigenous
peoples this includes the denial of
genocide this denial is clearly at play
in
Palestine Israel is a settler Colonial
apartate regime and the current
government is now being accused of
engaging in genocide
this accusation is not being leveled at
any People based on their ethnicity
nationality or confessional
preference rather it is being
leveled at those political and military
leaders who have dehumanized the
Palestinian people through genocidal
rhetoric as human animals encouraging
their killing and
destruction it is level Reed against a
state whose leaders are openly calling
for a second knock bar shielded by
International
impunity which has enabled the
perpetuation of Decades of generational
violence and systematic oppression
against the Palestinian people to
maintain the domination and the
expansion of the settler colonial
state as a matter of extreme agency
South Africa as a state party to the
convention
on the prevention and Punishment of the
crime of genocide respectfully request
the court to indicate the following
provisional measures the text of which
has been amended to reflect the ever
increasing gravity of the
situation South Africa respectfully
requests the court to order the state of
Israel as a state party to the genocide
convention and as a party to these
proceedings two one immediately and
further to its obligations under the
Court's previous orders of 26 January
2024 and 28 March 20124 seized its
military operations in the Gaza Strip
including indraa
govern and withdraw from the Rafa
Crossing and immediately totally and
unconditionally withdraw Israeli arm
army from the entirety of the Gaza
Strip two in immediately and further to
its obligations under the provisional
measure 4 of the courts 26 January 2024
order and provisional measures 2A and 2B
of the
courts uh decision of March uh
2024 take all effective measures to
ensure and facilitate the unimpeded
access to Gaza of United Nations and
other official engag
officials engaged in the provision of
humanitarian Aid and assistance to the
population of Gaza as well as fact
finding missions internationally
mandated bodies and or officials
investigators and journalists in order
to access and record conditions on the
ground in Gaza enable and enable the
effective preservation and retention of
evidence and ensure that its military
does not act
to prevent such access provision
preservation or
retention
three submit an open report to the court
a on all measures taken to give effect
to these provisional measures within one
week as from the date of this order and
B on all measures taken to give effect
to All Pro uh previous provisional
measures indicated by the cour court
within one month as from the date of
this order Mr President distinguished
members of the Court this concludes
South Africa's
pleading I thank you for your kind
attention I also thank the
registry its staff and the interpreters
for their invaluable assistance finally
my thanks also go to the South African
team thank you very
much I thank the agent of South Africa
whose statement brings to an end the
single round of oral arguments of South
Africa as well as this afternoon sitting
the court will meet again tomorrow
Friday May 17 at 10:00 a.m. to hear the
state of Israel present a single round
of oral argument the sitting is adj joed
for e
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channnel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channnel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
I
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
I
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
I
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one
channel
one channel
one channel one